1. Why cost in spiral model is high ?
2. What is downward flow of defect ?
3. What are disadvantages of v-v model?

# Agile Model Terminologies

1. **User story** - Nothing but modules  
2. **epic** - Collection of user stories(complete set of requirements)
3. **sprint** - Actual time taken to `develop` and test one or more user stories
4. **Scrum Master** - He is a person responsible for quick delivery of project.  
He will assign to individual engineers and he will make sure all the tasks are completed.
5. **Release** - Release is a combination of sprint

Let's take e.g.  
1 project = 12 months = 12 releases  
**1 release = 1 month (20 days)**  ( 1 and 2 days we can leave)
Let's say 1 release = 2 sprints

**1 sprint = 10 days**  
1st sprint = 3 user stories(login, home page, about us)  
2nd sprint = 3 user stories(add to card, payment, terms & conditions)

## Types of Meeting in Agile

1. **Sprint Planning** - This is conducted on **1st day of every Sprint**.  
 Scrum master will conduct this meeting,
SM, BA, Developer, Testers, PM will be part Of this meeting.  
What happens- BA will explain the business requirements and explain user stories.  
**"Priortize the user stories"**.

2. **Sprint Retrospect Meeting** - This is conducted on **last day of the sprint**.  
Scrum Master will conduct this meeting. SM, BA, Developers, Testers, PM will be part of this meeting.  
What happens - what went well, what did not go well, what are the action plans ?

3. **Release Retrospect Meeting** - This is conducted on **last day of the Release.**  
Scrum Master will conduct this meeting. SM, BA, Developer, Testers, PM will be of part of this meeting.  
What happens - What went well, what did not go well, what are the action plans?  

4. **Bug Triage meeting** - This is conducted few days before the Sprint(8th day).  
Senior tester will conduct this meeting.
SM, BA, Developers, Testers, PM will be part of this meeting.  
What happens - **Priortize the bugs** (Which on to fix first, which next, which can be
postponed to future sprint/releases)

5. **Scrum Meeting or Daily standup meeting** - It is conducted by scrum master.  
We will discuss what work we did yesterday.

6. **Sprint Demo** - Development will give the developed sprint to the sprint to the Product Owner/Stakholder  
and ask if they can provide feedback on this.  
Basically we are giving a demo to the product owner and ask for the feedback

7. **Product backlog** - This will consist of all pending user stories and bugs.
Let's say

### Advantages of Agile

1. Improved collaboration
2. Customer satisfaction

### Disadvantages of Agile

* Effort estimation is not certain - Work and budget is clear at initial stage
* Customer requirement changes are allowed which can disturb the sprint.
