# Defect
Any deviation from the customer requirement is called as defect

It can be categorised into `Severity` and `Priority`

1. **Severity** - Impact of defect on customer business workflow  
"how badly it is impacting the customer business"

**Types of Severity**
1. **Blocker**  
If there is any defect and because of this, **we are not able to proceed further**(we are blocked), this is called as Blocker Defect.

e.g. If I enter correct username and password but after submit it shows blank page  
than it is a blocker defect.

2. **Critical** - 
If there is any defect and it is badly impacting the business but the user is not blocked, this will be my critical defect 
or  
If I am 100% sure that this defect will badly impact the customer business workflow , but the user is not blocked we can consider that as critical defect. 

e.g. If I am clicking on Mobile items it is taking into groceries page then it can be categorised into critical defect.  

3. **Major** - If there is any defect and we are not sure how badly this defect will impact the customer business workflow.

e.g.  
Suppose I am trying to login into a website and I am entering wrong password but  
it is not giving me error message then I am not sure whether it is affecting the business or not.  

4. **Minor** - If there is a defect and we are 100% sure that this defect will not affect customere business workflow, it will be considered as minor defect.  

e.g. Any color formation, spelling mistake, alignment issue.

# Priority
Importance given to fix the defect or how soon the defect needs to be fixed

1. High Priority (I need to fix this immediately)
2. Low Priority

e.g.   
High Severity - Blocker, Critical  
Low Severity - Major , Minor
1. High Severity , High Priority

e.g. When user enters correct username, correct password, login button is disabled

2. Low severity, Low Priority  
e.g. Spelling mistake in about us page
4. High Severity, Low priority
e.g. 

5. Low severity, High Priorty
e.g.  
Flipkart logo color is dark(not good)
No compromise with brand name 

