# Extent Reports
What are Extent Reports?

Extent Reports is an open-source reporting library useful for test automation.  
It can be easily integrated with major testing frameworks like JUnit, NUnit, TestNG etc. 

These reports are HTML documents that depict results as pie charts.

They also allow the generation of custom logs, snapshots, and other customized details.

Once an automated test script runs successfully, testers need to generate a test
execution report. While provide a default report, they do not provide the details.  

Using Extent Reports in Selenium
Extent Reports in Selenium contain two major, frequently used classes:  
* ExtentReports class
* ExtentTest class

**Syntax**
```
ExtentReports reports = new ExtentReports("Path of directory to store the resultant HTML file", true/false);

ExtentTest test = reports.startTest("TestName");

```
The ExtentReports class generates HTML reports based on a path specified by the tester. Based on the Boolean flag,   
the existing  report has to be overwritten or a new report must be generated. "True" is the default value, meaning   
that all existing data will be overwritten.

The ExtentTest class logs test steps onto the previously generated HTML report.  
Both classes can be used with the following built-in methods:

**startTest:** : Executes preconditions of a test case
with this method, we are telling extentReport to start the reporting.

**endTest** : Executes postconditions of a test case
With this method, we are telling extentReport to stop the reporting.

**Log** : Logs the status of each test step onto the HTML report being generated.

**Flush:** Erases any previous data on a relevant report and creates a whole new report.

A Test Status can be indicated by the following values:  
PASS  
FAIL  
SKIP  
INFO  
